# Understanding your first C program

Let's jump right in, open up Xcode and create our first Command-line program. Watch this video and follow the steps to create your first Xcode project. In this video we create a Command-line tool called "Hello World". When you create a Command-line tool, Xcode generates a basic C program for you. Once you are done watching the video, read below to understand the C program Xcode generated.

<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OTNKlgEdE6Q" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


```c

/* Prints "Hello world!" on the screen */

#include <stdio.h>

int main(int argc, const char * argv[]) {
    // insert code here...
    printf("Hello, World!\n");
    return 0;
}
```

### The breakdown

Understanding every line we write in a program is required in order to make sure our code compiles properly.  Let's breakdown every single line in the C program above.

`#include <stdio.h>`

* is a statement which tells the compiler to insert the contents of **stdio** at that particular place. **Stdio** stands for Standard Input / Output.
* In C we use some functions like **printf()**, **scanf()**,
Do we define it? No.
* These functions are not defined by the programmer. These functions are already defined inside the **stdio** library. To use these kinds of predefined functions, we have to `#include` the corresponding header file `<stdio.h>`.

```c
int main(int argc, const char * argv[]) {

}
```

* the most important part of a C program is the **main()** function. At this point the distinction is not critical, **main()** is a C *function*, not a C command
* A function is nothing more than a routine that performs some task
* Some functions come with C and some are created by you. C programs are made up of one or more functions. Each program must *always* include a **main()** function. A function is distinguished from a command by the parenthesis that follow the function name.

These are functions:
**main()**, **printf()**, **strlen()**

and these are commands:
**return**, **while**, **int**, **if** etc...

What you see beside **main** and enclosed in parenthesis are called arguments. Arguments are bit's of information the function needs in order to execute successfully. The arguments are not that important at this moment in time. So I will omit their explanation.

`// insert code here...`

* is a comment in C
* We'll use comments in help clarify what our program does for both us and the readers of our program
* Don't worry to much about how to write a comment, we will cover that soon!

Last but not least, what is inside our **main()** function:
```c
printf("Hello, World!\n");
return 0;
```
* The first line prints `Hello, world!` to the screen
* The second line we need not worry about now but it is the value our function returns and 0 means the program is successful.

### The main() function

Just as a home page is the beginning place to surf a website, **main()** is always the first place the computer begins when running your program. Even if **main()** is not the first function listed in your program, **main()** still determines the beginning of the program's execution.

After the word **main()**, you always see an opening brace `({)`. When you find a matching closing brace `(})`, **main()** is finished.

That wasn't so bad, right! Pat yourself on the back for experiencing your first program in C. :)

### A C program in action

Please follow along:

<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IapmByWYVIc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
----


### A little starter challenge

Write your own C program by expanding on the initial example given above. Try to make your program print 3 interesting things about you.

When you think you are done, press the Build & Run button to see your program in action!

When you are satisfied with the output, save the program in the C folder we created earlier in the setup.

##### Hint
You will need 3 **printf** statements in order to complete the challenge.
