# Adding variables to your programs

No doubt you've heard that computers process data. Somehow you've got to have a way to store that data. In C, as in most programming languages, you store data in variables. A variable is nothing more than a box in your computer's memory that holds a number or a character.

Let's first do a quick review of the **char** data type first!

Follow along because we will be modifying the code in a little while after this video.

*Hint:* Keep your eyes peeled!

1. Open Terminal and cd in the **~/desktop/lighthouse/c** directory
2. We will use **vi** to create our second C program called **data_types.c**


<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bR03nSQ98-Q?showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Note** To save a file in *vi* press `ESC` then `:` then type `wq` and press `ENTER`

##### Your first bug!!!
Did you notice something wrong with the output of our program?

The output of the program was:

> Number: , Letter: a, Bracket: ] // Where is the number?

---

### The challenge
The goal of this mini-challenge is to fix the bug and get the output to look like this:

> Number: 3, Letter: a, Bracket: ]

No hints this time :P

---

### Other kinds of data types

Let's add some int's and floats to our program and cover all the fundamental data types in C.

<iframe width="700" height="394" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/05GOgW4Qh9g?showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---
### Challenge

1. What is difference between?

`char number = '3'` and `int value = 6`

2. Can you think of a time when you would want to use one over the other?

3. C program to add two numbers in c.

---
*You don't need to submit the answer but it's good to get used to doing some R & D. Google can be such a good friend :)*
