# Building a Todo list iPhone App with Objective-C: Part 2

Building out the Todo app will teach you how to expand on the things you learned in the previous tutorial. We will extend our existing Todo app and give users the ability to add new Todo’s with any text they want.

What you'll learn
Creating view controllers & segues with Storyboards
Creating a basic data model
Target-action
Delegation
Debugging in Xcode using breakpoints

<iframe width="760" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eOfZ9EZC0m0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Creating view controllers & segues with Storyboards

To create a view controller in storyboards we need to do a couple things:

1. Open the storyboard in question, navigate to the object panel in Interface Builder & Search for a View Controller object

2. Drag the View Controller object on to the storyboard

3. Creating a segue from one view controller to another

## Creating a basic data model

Our Todo application doesn’t actually display a lot of interesting information. It currently only displays strings! NSString’s of course.

Let’s take a quick look at the UI:

We need to come up with a way to hold those strings in a data structure that can grow and shrink (Removing Todo’s in the next tutorial). Let’s evaluate a few data structures and pick which is the best to accomplish this task.

First let’s define what we need to accomplish:

- We need to be able to add elements to it
- We need to be able to remove elements from it
- We need to be able to access an element by index

**NSDictionary**

“The NSDictionary class declares the programmatic interface to objects that manage immutable associations of keys and values. Use this class or its subclass NSMutableDictionary when you need a convenient and efficient way to retrieve data associated with an arbitrary key. NSDictionary creates static dictionaries, and NSMutableDictionary creates dynamic dictionaries.” - Apple

Hmm.. do we need to retrieve data by key? Our list of what we would accomplish states that “We need to be able to access an element by index”

NSDictionary is a no go.

**NSArray and it’s mutable counter part NSMutableArray**

“NSArray and its subclass NSMutableArray manage ordered collections of objects called arrays. NSArray creates static arrays, and NSMutableArray creates dynamic arrays. You can use arrays when you need an ordered collection of objects.” - Apple

I really like these parts of the excerpt:

- use arrays when you need an ordered collection of objects
- NSMutableArray creates dynamic arrays

Remember from C that an array holds elements like this…

[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5](#)

In order to display data in a UITableView we need to implement the UITableViewDataSource protocol. That protocol has two methods that are absolutely required in order to make the table view work:

- tableView:**UITableView** numberOfRowsInSection:**(NSInteger)section**
	*tells the table view how many rows it should display. This will more than likely always be the amount of data we have or the count of elements in our data structure. *

- tableView:**UITableView** cellForRowAtIndexPath: **NSIndexPath**
	*tells the table view what it should display at a given indexPath*

NSIndexPath is made up of a *row* & a *section* both are NSIntegers.

Well if the rows start from 0 which they do. We can use the NSIndexPath.row to access the elements from our array or (the todo’s from our NSMutableArray data structure).

Bingo! We found a winner. NSArray’s mutable counter part NSMutableArray is exactly what we need.

## Target-Action



## Delegation



## Debugging in Xcode breakpoints
