# Custom Methods

## Goal

In this challenge you will go back to the Largest Number assignment, and refactor the code to encapsulate the algorithm in a class.

Remember to commit your code to git after each step.

## Objectives

* Create methods that accept input parameters and return a value.
* Learn to use objects to organize code.
* Encapsulate a function inside a class.

## Reading and Videos

### Required

Lynda:

* [Adding methods](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Adding-methods/143328/157000-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)


## Exercise

* Start by opening your Largest Number assignment.

#### Encapsulate your algorithm in an object

* Create a new class and name it `ArrayUtility`.
* Create a new method called `largestNumber`.
* This method should accept an `NSArray` as a parameter and return an `NSNumber`.
* Use your algorithm from `main.m` as the body of this method.
* Now use this new object to find the largest number in the array.

#### Log out the result

* In `main.m` you will have to import this new class.
* Create some instances of the class and pass them different arrays.
* Log out the results.

#### Add more methods

Use the `largestNumber` method as a reference for the following steps:

* Add a new method to find the smallest number.
* Add a new method to find the median number.

### Considerations

* Notice how we can use objects to keep related code organized.
* What other methods could you add to this utility class?

## Summary

By the end of this exercise, you should have:

* Created methods that accept input parameters and return a value.
* Learned to use classes to organize code.

If you feel like you are unclear on any of these objectives, make sure to ask a mentor for assistance. Don't forget to commit your work.
