# Instance Variables

## Goal

In this challenge you will manually create your own properties on a custom class using instance variables to store values and methods called `getters` and `setters` to retrieve and set these values.

Remember to commit your code to git after each step.

## Objectives

* Learn what properties actually are in Objective-C by making your own.
* Understand `getters`, `setters` and `instance variables` that store data.

## Reading and Videos

### Required

Lynda:

* [Adding class properties](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Adding-class-properties/143328/157001-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)

Big Nerd Ranch:

* 17\. Your First Class

### Additional

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/K5zJolpErUQ?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Exercise

* Follow along with the example in the `Your First Class` chapter of Big Nerd Ranch. You should create a `B​N​R​P​e​r​s​o​n` object.​
* Add a new property to this person called `eyeColor` and make its type `NSString`. Instead of using `@property`, create an ivar, getter, and setter manually.
* After creating a new instance of `B​N​R​P​e​r​s​o​n`, set the eye color using dot syntax. Example: `person.eyeColor = @"blue";`
* View the video in the Additional section above. Convert the manual getter and setter method to a property. Create an instance of `Maid` in `main.m`. Set the `cleaningBill` property and `NSLog` the amount using the property rather than using the manual `setter` and `getter`. The manual setter/getter code looks like this:

```objc
#import <Foundation/Foundation.h>
@interface Maid: NSObject {
  int _cleaningBill;
}
- (void)setCleaningBill:(int)cleaningBill;
- (int)cleaningBill;
@end

@implementation Maid
- (void)setCleaningBill:(int)cleaningBill {
  _cleaningBill = cleaningBill;
}
- (int)cleaningBill {
  return _cleaningBill;
}
@end

```

## Summary

By the end of this exercise, you should have:

* Manually implement properties using an ivar, getter method, and setter method.
* Learned that properties in Objective-C consist of a private storage variable, and a setter and getter method automatically generated by the compiler.


If you feel like you are unclear on any of these objectives, make sure to ask a mentor for assistance. Don't forget to commit your work.
