# Initializers

## Goal

In this challenge you will be creating a custom initializer for the `Person` class from 4 challenges ago. You will use the custom initializer to set the person's name and pet.

Remember to commit your code to git after each step.

## Objectives

* Create a custom initializer with multiple arguments.
* Learn why custom initializers are useful.

## Reading and Videos

### Required

Lynda:

* [Using initializers and object keywords](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Using-initializers-object-keywords/143328/157002-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)
* [Using dealloc methods](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Using-dealloc-methods/143328/157003-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)

Big Nerd Ranch:

* [init](https://books.google.ca/books?id=yxwiAgAAQBAJ&q=NSArray#v=snippet&q=init&f=false)

### Additional

* [Objective-C Custom Initializers](http://www.codingexplorer.com/objective-c-custom-initializers/)


## Exercise

>
* Open your project from [Challenge #]()

#### Create a custom initializer

>
* Navigate to the `Person` class.
* Create a new initializer with a `pet` parameter and a `name` parameter.
* In this initializer, set the pet and name property of the person.
* In main.m, create your person object using your new initializer.
* Since you're setting the name and pet in the initializer, you can remove any code in `main.m` that sets these properties directly.


#### Add a readonly property 

We're going to add a date of birth property to our person class, but this is a special property, because a person's date of birth will never change. Unlike name and pet, that could be changed at any point, a date of birth will always remain the same. So we want to make sure that once the date of birth is set, it can't be changed by any other code.

If we create a property that is `readonly` then that property can never be set or changed in any other class, it can only be modified by the class that it exists in. If we then allow that property to be set in an object's initializer, something that only ever gets called once, we make this property settable only when the object is first created. And since it's readonly, it can never be modified after this.

>
* In the `Person` class, add a new property called `dateOfBirth` and make its type `NSDate`.
* Also, make this property `readonly` so it can only be modified by the `Person` class.
* Add a `dateOfBirth` parameter to your custom initializer and use it to set the `dateOfBirth` property. 
* Now when you create a new `Person` object, give that person a date of birth using an `NSDate` object. Feel free to use `[NSDate date];` to set the person's date of birth to right now.


### Considerations

* What's happening when a property is set to `readonly`?
* What happens when you try to update the `dateOfBirth` using dot syntax? `person.dateOfBirth = [NSDate date];` 
  
## Summary

By the end of this exercise, you should have:

* Learned the basics of 

If you feel like you are unclear on any of these objectives, make sure to ask a mentor for assistance! Don't forget to commit your work.



