# Inheritance

## Goal

* In this challenge you will create a `Vehicle` class and create a `Train` and `Bicycle` subclasses that inherit from `Vehicle`.
* You will then be able to override methods and add new properties to the subclasses.

Remember to commit your code to git after each step.

## Objectives

* Create a superclass and a subclass.
* Understand that the subclass inherits from the superclass.
* Override a superclass method.
* Add more properties to the subclasses.

## Reading and Videos

### Required

Lynda:

* [Inheritance and overriding in Objective-C](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Inheritance-overriding-Objective-C/143328/157017-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)

Big Nerd Ranch:

* 18\. Inheritance


## Exercise

* Start by creating a new Xcode project called Inheritance.

#### Create a `Vehicle` class

* Start by creating a `Vehicle` class that will be foundational class for any vehicle subtypes you create in this project.
* Add a `currentSpeed` property. Use `double` as the type.
* Note that `Vehicle` inherits from `NSObject`.
* Override the `description` method in `Vehicle` that it inherits from `NSObject` and return the speed of the vehicle something like this:

```objc
return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"traveling at %f miles per hour", self.currentSpeed];
```

* Create a method called `- (void)makeNoise` but leave the body of the method blank. Objective-C doesn't officially have `abstract methods`, but you could think of this as an `abstract method`, which is meant to be overridden in its subclasses. This makes sense because `Vehicle` itself doesn't make a specific noise, only subtypes do.

#### Create a Train class

* Create a new class called `Train` and have it subclass `Vehicle` instead of `NSObject`.
* In `Train.m` override the `- (void)makeNoise` to `NSLog(@"Choo Choo")`.
* In `main.m`, create a new instance of `Train`.
* Set its speed to any value you like.
* Call `makeNoise` method on the train.
* Use `NSLog` to print the train's description. Notice just logging out the class automatically calls `description`. There is no need to call it directly.

#### Create a Bicycle class

* Create a new class called `Bicycle` and have it subclass `Vehicle` instead of `NSObject`.
* In `Bicycle.m` override the `- (void)makeNoise` to `NSLog(@"Ding Dong")`.
* Create a new property on `Bicycle` called `hasBasket` that has a type of `BOOL`.
* Override the description method of the `Bicycle` to mention if it has a basket. Your code should look something like this:

 ```objc
if (self.hasBasket) {
    return [NSString stringWithFormat:@"traveling at %f miles per hour with a basket", self.currentSpeed];
}
return [super description];

```

* In `main.m`, create a new instance of `Bicycle`.
* Set its speed to any value you like.
* Give it a basket.
* Call `makeNoise` method on the bicycle.
* Use `NSLog` to print the bicycle's description.

#### Keep going

* Keep playing around with different subclasses. Try creating a `TandemBicycle` that subclasses `Bicycle`.

### Considerations

* Subclasses get the public data, and method implementations of their superclass. The main advantage of this is that it avoids code repetition.

## Summary

By the end of this exercise, you should have:

* Created a base class and subclasses of that class.
* Learned that the subclass inherits from the superclass.
* Overridden a superclass's method.
* Added subclass specific methods that are not in the superclass.

If you feel like you are unclear on any of these objectives, make sure to ask a mentor for assistance. Don't forget to commit your work.
