# More Objects

## Goal

In this challenge you will create a new command line app to manipulate more foundation objects.

Remember to commit your code to git after each step.

## Objectives

* Create objects using the `NSDate` and `NSDateFormatter` class.

## Reading and Videos

### Required

Lynda:

* [Using classes in the Foundation framework](https://www.lynda.com/Objective-C-tutorials/Using-classes-Foundation-framework/143328/156993-4.html?srchtrk=index%3a8%0alinktypeid%3a2%0aq%3aobjective+c%0apage%3a1%0as%3arelevance%0asa%3atrue%0aproducttypeid%3a2)

Big Nerd Ranch:

12\. Objects<br>
13\. More Messages<br>
14\. NSString<br>

> Note: Chapters 12-14 include mention of _structs_, _stack_, and _heap_. We haven't introduced these yet. But if you are curious please read the following in the Big Nerd Ranch:

> - Pages 33, 34 (stack)
> - Chapter 10 (structs)
> - Chapter 11 (heap)

### Additional

* [NSNumber](https://developer.apple.com/reference/foundation/nsnumber)
* [Date Formatting Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/DataFormatting/Articles/dfDateFormatting10_4.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40002369-SW1)


## Exercise

* Start by creating a new Xcode project called Dates, and navigate to the `main.m` file.

#### Create a number

* The first thing you're going to do is create a new object with the type `NSNumber`. Call this object `age` and set its value to be your age.
* Now use NSLog to print out the value of this new object. Remember to use `%@` to print the value of an object.
* We "box" primitive integer values as `NSNumber`s so that we can add them to arrays among other things. To do computations with these objects we have to "unbox" them using one of the methods for [Accessing Numeric Values](https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&ved=0ahUKEwjMyqvw-PzVAhUJ7YMKHZKrCGwQFgguMAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fdeveloper.apple.com%2Fdocumentation%2Ffoundation%2Fnsnumber%2F1412554-integervalue&usg=AFQjCNGMM9wy8aEhem8kbCyEAVXVRay38A)
* It's your birthday. Add one to your age. To do this you will have to convert your `NSNumber` `age` back to an integer using the property `intValue` or `integerValue` and then increment the value. After you increment the value convert the result back to an `NSNumber` and log it.

#### Create a date

* Create an `NSDate` object called `now` by calling `[NSDate date]`. This creates a variable that represents the date a the time it was created.
* Print this date out to the console.

#### Create a formatted date string

What if we want to represent our date in a specific format? To do this we can use the `NSDateFormatter` class. It will allow us to create a date formatted as an NSString like `@"2017-07-24"`.

* Create a new `NSDateFormatter` object called `formatter` by calling `[[NSDateFormatter alloc] init];`
* `NSDateFormatter` has a property called `dateFormat` that accepts a string for the format of the date we're going to use. Set this property to be `@"yyyy-MM-dd"`. This will allow us to create a date from a string year, month, day, like `@"2017-07-24"`.

#### More date formatter methods

* `NSDateFormatter` has a method called `dateFromString:` that accepts an `NSString` and returns an `NSDate`. Call this method on the date formatter to create a new date object using your birthday as the date in the string.
* Print out this new date to make sure it was created correctly.

#### NSDate's time interval

* `NSDate` has a method called `timeIntervalSinceNow` that returns the number of seconds between now and a date. It returns this as a `NSTimeInterval` which is an Objective-C `typedef` for `double`. A `typedef` is like an alias and is part of `C`.
* Call the `timeIntervalSinceNow` method on your birthday and save the result in an `NSTimeInterval` variable.
* Print out the result of this to the console to see how old you are in seconds. Notice that the number is negative, that's just because it's calculating the number of seconds between now and a date in the past.

### Considerations

* What else can you do with `NSDate`? Check the [NSDate documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nsdate?language=objc) and try at least one other method in your project.
* What else can you do with `NSDateFormatter`? Check the [Date Formatting Guide](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/DataFormatting/Articles/dfDateFormatting10_4.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40002369-SW1) and try at least one other method in your project.

## Summary

By the end of this exercise, you should have:

* Learned the basics of `NSNumber`, `NSDate` and `NSDateFormatter`.

If you feel like you are unclear on any of these objectives, make sure to ask a mentor for assistance. Don't forget to commit your work.
